```toml
[advisory]
id = "HSEC-2023-0015"
cwe = [672]
keywords = ["hackage", "mitm", "supply-chain"]

[[affected]]
package = "cabal-install"
cvss = "CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:U/C:N/I:H/A:N"
[[affected.versions]]
introduced = "1.24.0.0"
fixed = "3.10.2.0"

[[references]]
type = "REPORT"
url = "https://github.com/haskell/cabal/issues/8918#issuecomment-1521096581"
[[references]]
type = "FIX"
url = "https://github.com/haskell/cabal/commit/dcfdc9cffd74cade4e8cf3df37c5993413ffd30f"
```

# cabal-install uses expired key policies

A problem was recently discovered in `cabal-install`'s
implementation of the Hackage Security protocol that would allow an
attacker who was in possession of a revoked private key and who
could perform a man-in-the-middle attack against Hackage to use the
revoked key to deliver malicious packages. At this time, this is
only a theoretical attack - no keys have been revoked. Release
3.10.2.0 of `cabal-install` contains a fix for this bug, and we have
contacted distributors of older versions (such as Linux
distributions) with a patch that they can apply.

## Background

Hackage Security is an implementation of [The Update Framework][],
which is a design for a package repository that allows untrusted
mirrors without undermining software supply-chain security. In
particular, Hackage Security cryptographically guarantees the
following properties:

 * Mirrors of Hackage cannot change the contents of packages. This
   prevents the insertion of malicious code.

 * Mirrors cannot omit newer packages for more than a few days
   without clients noticing. This ensures both that mirrors cannot
   maliciously deny security updates, and that mistakes in their
   configuration will be noticed.

Hackage has a [key policy file][] that delegates authority to a
number of private keys for various purposes. Most of the keys are
kept securely offline by trusted community members who annually
re-sign the various files to indicate that they still have
confidence in Hackage's policies. However, to prevent clients from
being denied updates, Hackage has an automated process that
periodically re-signs a timestamp file. This signature has a short
expiry. Additionally, a snapshot file contains signed hashes of the
Hackage index that is updated on each package upload. The timestamp
and snapshot private keys are held in memory on the Hackage server.
These are called the operational keys. If an operational key is ever
compromised, then it will be revoked by having the Hackage root
keyholders sign a new key policy file. To prevent replay attacks,
clients that connect to Hackage after this update will reject older
policy files, based on a monotonically increasing file version
number.

If a client has not yet received the updated policy file (for
example, because they have a fresh install of `cabal-install` or
because they have not run `cabal update` in some time), the built-in
expiration date in the file limits the window of exposure in which
the revoked operational keys would be expected. As long as the root
keys have not been compromised, the compromised operational keys can
only be used until the policy file expires. In addition to
compromising a Hackage operational key, an attacker would
additionally need to either compromise a Hackage mirror or perform a
man-in-the-middle attack against the target in order to serve a
malicious or obsolete package index.

[key policy file]: https://hackage.haskell.org/root.json
[The Update Framework]: https://theupdateframework.io/

## The Issue

A bug in `cabal-install` caused it to skip the verification of the
key policy file's expiration timestamp. This means that users of
older, unpatched versions of `cabal-install` could be vulnerable to
a malicious mirror or man-in-the-middle attack against Hackage if
they have not connected to Hackage in a long time, even after the
policy file has expired.

We do not believe that it has been possible to exploit this
vulnerability, because no operational keys have been revoked.
However, in case key revocation occurs, we strongly advise all users
of `cabal-install` to ensure that they have version 3.10.2.0 or
newer, which contain the fix.
