```toml
[advisory]
id = "HSEC-2024-0003"
cwe = [150]
keywords = ["windows"]
aliases = ["CVE-2024-3566", "VU#123335"]
related = ["CVE-2024-1874", "CVE-2024-24576", "CVE-2024-22423"]

[[references]]
type = "ARTICLE"
url = "https://flatt.tech/research/posts/batbadbut-you-cant-securely-execute-commands-on-windows/"

[[references]]
type = "ADVISORY"
url = "https://kb.cert.org/vuls/id/123335"

[[references]]
type = "FIX"
url = "https://github.com/haskell/process/commit/3c419f9eeedac024c9dccce544e5a6fb587179a5"

[[references]]
type = "FIX"
url = "https://github.com/haskell/process/commit/951b02dd95559b1a26f2456bfb97cf740ea40934"

[[references]]
type = "FIX"
url = "https://github.com/haskell/process/commit/5fc91f5f36ed4479be2b95f04f264bb78ac8089d"

[[affected]]
package = "process"
os = ["mingw32"]
cvss = "CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:L/PR:N/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H"

[[affected.versions]]
introduced = "1.0.0.0"
fixed = "1.6.23.0"
```

# process: command injection via argument list on Windows

The *process* library on Windows is vulnerable to a command injection
vulnerability, via `cmd.exe`'s interpretation of arguments.  Programs that
invoke batch files (`.bat`, `.cmd`) and pass arguments whose values are
affected by program inputs may be affected.

This issue was discovered in many programming languages' Windows process
execution behaviour.  It was tracked by CERT/CC as **VU#123335** and a
coordinated disclosure was made on 2024-04-09 17:00 UTC.

A fix was released in *process-1.6.19.0*.


## Background

Unlike POSIX systems, Windows does not have a mechanism for passing multiple
arguments.Command line parsing is up to individual programs.

The *process* library defines the `RawCommand` constructor for specifying an
executable and its arguments:

```haskell
data CmdSpec
  = ShellCommand String
  | RawCommand FilePath [String]
```

On Windows, the `RawCommand` executable name and arguments are serialised into
a single *command line* string, with separate arguments quoted separately.
*process* then invokes the Windows [`CreateProcess`][doc-CreateProcess]
routine with this command line string is given as the `lpCommandLine`
argument.

[doc-CreateProcess]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/processthreadsapi/nf-processthreadsapi-createprocessa


## Issue

When executing `.bat` or `.cmd` files, [`CreateProcess`][doc-CreateProcess]
implicitly spawns `cmd.exe`.  The `System.Process` command line construction
does not escape characters with special meaning to `cmd.exe`.  As a
consequence, a command injection vulnerability arises when the following
conditions are satisfied:

- Program running on Windows
- Program executes a `.bat` or `.cmd` file
- The argument values include or are influenced by program input


## Demonstration

The following batch file, `test.bat`, merely prints the executable name the
first two arguments (as interpreted by `cmd.exe`):

```
@ECHO OFF
ECHO 0: %0
ECHO 1: %1
ECHO 2: %2
PAUSE
```

The following Haskell program executes `test.bat` with basic string arguments.
The output is as expected:

```
λ> readProcess "test.bat" ["a","b"] [] >>= putStrLn
0: "test.bat"
1: "a"
2: "b"
```

However, we can use a close quote and the `&` character to induce `cmd.exe` to
execute a program named in the argument:

```
λ> readProcess "test.bat" ["\"&calc.exe"] [] >>= putStrLn
0: "test.bat"
1: "\"
2:
```

In addition to producing the above output, `calc.exe` is executed.


## Mitigation

The lack of a general mechanism on Windows for safely conveying command line
arguments to programs increases the risk of this kind of security issue.  The
fact that `cmd.exe` command line parsing is complex and poorly documented
exacerbates this issue, and also heightens the risk that the fix is
incomplete, or causes other issues.

If possible, avoid executing batch files where arguments include or are
influenced by untrusted program inputs.  If it must be done, reject arguments
that include special characters including `&` and `"`.


## Fix versions

*process* was modified to perform additional escaping and quoting
when executing `.bat` and `.cmd` files on Windows (ignoring
character case).  The behaviour is unchanged in all other cases.

The fix was released in ***process-1.6.19.0***.  The following GHC
releases were the first in their series to include a fixed version
of the *process* library:

- **GHC 9.10.1-alpha3** (released 2024-04-15)
- GHC 9.8.x (**no release with fix yet**)
- **GHC 9.6.5** (released 2024-04-16)

Such a change in semantics should normally result in a major version
bump.  Because we expect very few (if any) users will be impacted by
the behavioural change, the GHC team made a pragmatic decision to
avoid the disruption that a major version bump would cause.

A follow-up fix was released in ***process-1.6.23.0*** to handle batch
scripts with paths ending in whitespace and periods and
unescaped `%` expansions.


## Acknowledgements

Security researcher **RyotaK** discovered and responsibly disclosed
this vulnerability, coordinating the response across the many
affected langauges and ecosystems.

Ben Gamari commited and released the fix, which was based on a
proposal by Fraser Tweedale.  Fraser also improved the
`System.Process` module documentation to better explain the Windows
semantics.

Security researcher **Kainan Zhang** (@4xpl0r3r) discovered and
responsibly disclosing the issue in the first fix and the Rust
Security Response WG coordinated the response.
