```toml
[advisory]
id = "HSEC-2023-0013"
cwe = [312]
keywords = ["historical"]
aliases = ["CVE-2014-6274"]

[[affected]]
package = "git-annex"
cvss = "CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:L/UI:N/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H"
[[affected.versions]]
introduced = "0.20110401"
fixed = "5.20140919"

[[references]]
type = "ADVISORY"
url = "https://git-annex.branchable.com/security/CVE-2014-6274/"
[[references]]
type = "ARTICLE"
url = "https://git-annex.branchable.com/upgrades/insecure_embedded_creds/"
```

# *git-annex* plaintext storage of embedded credentials on encrypted remotes

*git-annex* had a bug in the **S3** and **Glacier** remotes where if
`embedcreds=yes` was set, and the remote used `encryption=pubkey` or
`encryption=hybrid`, the embedded AWS credentials were stored in the
Git repository in (effectively) plaintext, not encrypted as they
were supposed to be.

That means that anyone who gets a copy of the Git repository can
extract the AWS credentials from it.  Which would be bad.

A remote with this problem cannot be enabled using `git annex
enableremote`. Old versions of *git-annex* will fail with a GPG
error; the current version will fail with a pointer to this web
page.

## Remediation

If your repository has this problem, chose from one of these
approaches to deal with it:

1. Change your AWS credentials, so the ones stored in the clear in
   git won't be used.

   After changing the credentials, make sure you have a fixed
   version of git-annex, and you can then re-embed the new creds
   into the repository, encrypted this time, by setting the
   `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` environment
   variables, and running `git annex enableremote $remotename
   embedcreds=yes`.

2. Fix the problem and then remove the history of the *git-annex*
   branch of the repository.

   Make sure you have a fixed version of *git-annex*, and force
   *git-annex* to rewrite the embedded creds, with encryption this
   time, by setting by setting the `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and
   `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` environment variables, and running `git annex
   enableremote $remotename embedcreds=yes`.

   Then, to get rid of old versions of the *git-annex* branch that
   still contains the creds in cleartext, you can use `git annex
   forget`; note that it will remove other historical data too.

   Keep in mind that this will not necessarily delete data from
   clones you do not control.

3. If you're sure that you're the only one who has access to the
   repository, you could decide to leave it as-is.  It's no more
   insecure than if you had used `encryption=shared` in the first
   place when setting it up.
